So let's go through and
let's play with an example.
So I've got this area for
mapping exercises and
let's let's go play
around with this a little
bit this is in the mapping directory here.
Here we have get character is
a fake promise in this case.
It's a fake API request is a JSON file and
here you can see the answer sheet.
But go ahead from this promise get
me the first one in the database and
get plucked the name out.
That seems fine that's good so
what we wanna do at this
point is we wanna be able to kind
of map these in different ways.
But what happens if we wanted
to get four characters?
Right, we wanted to go get,
one two three and four.
So we could do something like.
1, 2, 3, and 4.
And maybe this is what we get back from
the API that they were looking for.
And what I wanna do is I want
to take those numbers, and
we'll see I'm gonna do this
wrong first we'll map them and
we'll say for that number I
want to go get that character
let's start with the four
character at this point.
And we'll get that nth character.
Right, and you can see that
this doesn't work great and
if you look under the hood these
are a bunch of observables.
So I can merge map them instead of a map.
We'll require that one,
swap this one.
Now you can see it pulls in each one of
them as its own independent piece.
I need these ideas in the database
go fire them off in parallel.
As they come back,
put them on the page, right?
So these are all getting
fired in parallel.
And as they come in,
they are getting handled, right?
And so you begin to kind of like
play around with pieces
of this as we go through.
So, we have the ability
to switch between things.
This seems kind of interesting for
us, like what could we do here?
I think switch map is one of
the more interesting ones and
like once you kind of wrap
your head around switch map,
you can also theoretically kind of get a
sense around how to deal with exhaustion.
Just like what logic, do you want?
Right, like the kind of usage and
syntax isn't too different, but this idea
of like figuring out how to deal with
different pieces of this along the way.
So I'll actually show you
a simple implementation of it and
we kind of play around with
it a little bit as well.
We'll look at it we'll kinda
try to implement it also.
So I have this playground that I built,
and
this is the kind of under
the hood piece of it, right?
Well actually I'll take it for
a spin in a second, but
we've got to start and
stop that we've seen before.
We've got this ability to clear all
that does is clear out the Dom.
It's not really important for us.
But we're going to merge, play and pause.
And then we're going to switch between.
If it's running we're switch between
whatever observable we care about,
or this special observable.
Two is a strong word but there are two
special observables that RxJS gives us.
One is called never and
the other one is called empty.
Just as a random guess,
what do you think never does?
>> Never
>> Nothing.
>> Nothing never emits,
it never completes.
It's just like a black hole of observable,
nothing happens, right?
And empty will just basically
immediately complete.
Right, like I don't want to do anything
here, I'm actually done right?
I think that's it we're finished.
So if you look at the switch map
code right we have the true and
the false coming through just like
we had that 1,2,3,4 previously.
Either true or
false is coming through, right?
That value is again true or false.
If it's running, right?
I would love to switch to this
observable from the very beginning,
if you forget what you were doing,
if anything else was happening,
because theoretically never
could have been happening.
If it is false,
then switch to this never observable.
So means that when we're running well
listen to whatever, this could be, for
instance, an interval, right?
We can see how this might work for
our timer,
where we say cool switch that
interval that's counting away.
If it's false redirect to
the never observable, right?
So now we have the ability to change
the flow based on other events that
kinda come through in this case.